docs/architecture/architecture.md, before:

# Architecture

The architecture of pdns-distribute provides the following properties:

* event-based
* message-driven
* scalable
* self-healing
* secure by simplicity
* automation

It is intended to be fast, stable, secure and automateable.

## Overview

The architecture consists of four parts (primary, secondary, service discovery / consul, message broker / nats).
It is recommend to have one primary and multiple secondary servers. Multiple Primaries can be used if the database is replicated. In case of multiple
primaries it is important to run the health-checker service on only one instance, due to race conditions by running
multiple health-checkers within the same cluster.Nontheless there must be at least one secondary. The service discovery (consul)
should be run on at least three instances. It is recommended to also run the message broker (nats) on at least three
instances. Those instances can run on separate servers or on primaries and secondaries.

![architecture-overview](../img/pdns-distribute-architecture.png)

## Components
### Nats / message broker 
The message broker provides the communication backend for every microservice. Nats was choosen because it is very lightweight and
powerful.

### Consul / service discovery
The service discovery is used to detect active secondaries. When the discovery process is successful, the secondaries are included in health checks. For the
sake of completeness every microservice registers with consul at startup.

## Security
The consul and nats clusters have to use encryption (TLS) between each instance. Encryption (TLS) and authentication 
are required for all connections to consul and nats. 

Local connections (eg. to powerdns) are not encrypted, without instances of consul and nats.

The api-proxy enforces encryption. If no TLS keys are provided, it will create self-signed keys automatically at startup.
The authentication with the powerdns api uses a token within the http(s) header. The api-proxy will copy the given headers for
requests to the powerdns api.

## Sequence diagrams

??? note "Event Sync"
    ![event-sync](../img/event_sync.png)

??? note "Health Check and trigger Sync"
    ![health_check](../img/health_check.png)

??? note "Event based health check"
    ![event_health_check](../img/event_health_check.png)

??? note "RRSIG Signing Check and Sync"
    ![rrsig_signing_sync](../img/rrsig_signing_sync.png)

Commit message:

BREAKING CHANGE: Remove consul as dependency and replacing it by nats jetstream (#342)

docs/architecture/architecture.md, after:

# Architecture

The architecture of pdns-distribute provides the following properties:

* event-based
* message-driven
* scalable
* self-healing
* secure by simplicity
* automation

It is intended to be fast, stable, secure and automatable.

## Overview

The architecture consists of four parts (primary, secondary, message broker / nats).
It is recommended to have one primary and multiple secondary servers. Multiple Primaries can be used if the database is replicated. In case of multiple
primaries it is important to run the health-checker service on only one instance, due to race conditions by running
multiple health-checkers within the same cluster.Nontheless there must be at least one secondary.
It is recommended to also run the message broker (nats) on at least three instances with jetstream enabled.
Those instances can run on separate servers or on primaries and secondaries.

![architecture-overview](../img/pdns-distribute-architecture.png)

## Components
### Nats / message broker 
The message broker provides the communication backend for every microservice. Nats were chosen because it is very lightweight and
powerful. The broker is also used to detect active secondaries.

## Security
Nats clusters have to use encryption (TLS) between each instance. Encryption (TLS) and authentication 
are required for all connections to nats. 

Local connections (e.g. to powerdns) are not encrypted, without instances of nats.

The api-proxy enforces encryption. If no TLS keys are provided, it will create self-signed keys automatically at startup.
The authentication with the powerdns api uses a token within the http(s) header. The api-proxy will copy the given headers for
requests to the powerdns api.

## Sequence diagrams

??? note "Event Sync"
    ![event-sync](../img/event_sync.png)

??? note "Health Check and trigger Sync"
    ![health_check](../img/health_check.png)

??? note "Event based health check"
    ![event_health_check](../img/event_health_check.png)

??? note "RRSIG Signing Check and Sync"
    ![rrsig_signing_sync](../img/rrsig_signing_sync.png)
